## Pluralsight - Exploit Development and Execution with the Metasploit Framework

- Debuggers
	- x64dbg is for 64 bit programs (new)
	- Immunity Debugger is for 32 bit programs
- In C/C++ - Array of characters and pointers to character has same meaning 
- A shell code is a series of opcode/assembly instructions.
- `.text` section you can only read.
- `.bss` section you can read and write.
- `ESP` points to the top location of the *current stack*.
- `EBP` points to the bottom location of the *current stack*.
- There are additional new 8 general register in `64 bit` processor called `R8-R15`
- `XOR` instruction is used to empty the value.
- `CMP` instruction subtract the source from destination and if result id zero or not it updates `Zero` flag.
- `TEST` instruction performs the bitwise `AND` operation and set the flag register accordingly. 
- Memory Segments
	- .text
	- .data
	- .bss
	- Heap
	- Stack
- Memory Address are indicated inside Square brackets like [0x5bdff5]
- Intel - Little Endian
- For every single function in assembly there is prologue which make space for the stack.
			
		PUSH EBP
		MOV EBP, ESP
		AND ESP, FFFFFFF0
		SUB ESP,10
- The values in the prologue is decided by the compiler.
- Prologue in 64 bit
		
		push rap
		mov rbp,rsp
		sub rsp,30

- Epilogue in 64 bit is the reverse of prologue.
		
		add rsp,30
		pop rbp
- The size of stack is fixed after the prologue instruction.
- Stack Frame is deleted after the end of the function.
- When `PUSH` instrction is executed the value is added at the top of the stack towards lower address space and stack pointer is moved at the top of the stack where the value is added.
- `POP` is complete opposite of `PUSH` instruction .
- 


					
	

