# [WHY RASPBERRY PI ISN’T VULNERABLE TO SPECTRE OR MELTDOWN](https://www.raspberrypi.org/blog/why-raspberry-pi-isnt-vulnerable-to-spectre-or-meltdown/)

 - Spectre allows an attacker to bypass software checks to read data from arbitrary locations in the current address space.
 - Meltdown allows an attacker to read data from arbitrary locations in the operating system kernel’s address space (which should normally be inaccessible to user programs)
 - Both vulnerabilities exploit performance features (caching and speculative execution) common to many modern processors to leak data via a so-called side-channel attack. 
 
        t = a+b
        u = c+d
        v = e+f
        w = v+g
        x = h+i  
        y = j+k
 
  - What is a scalar processor?
    - The simplest sort of modern processor executes one instruction per cycle; we call this a scalar processor. Our example above will execute in six cycles on a scalar processor.
    - Examples of scalar processors include the Intel 486 and the ARM1176 core used in Raspberry Pi 1 and Raspberry Pi Zero.
  - What is a superscalar processor?
    - The obvious way to make a scalar processor (or indeed any processor) run faster is to increase its clock speed. However, we soon reach limits of how fast the logic gates inside the processor can be made to run; processor designers therefore began to look for ways to do several things at once.
    - An in-order superscalar processor examines the incoming stream of instructions and tries execute more than one at once, in one of several pipelines (pipes for short), subject to dependencies between the instructions. Dependencies are important: you might think that a two-way superscalar processor could just pair up (or dual-issue) the six instructions in our example like this:
    
            t, u = a+b, c+d
            v, w = e+f, v+g
            x, y = h+i, j+k

 - But this doesn’t make sense: we have to compute v before we can compute w, so the third and fourth instructions can’t be executed at the same time. Our two-way superscalar processor won’t actually be able to find anything to pair with the third instruction, so our example will execute in four cycles:
 
            t, u = a+b, c+d
            v    = e+f                   # second pipe does nothing here
            w, x = v+g, h+i
            y    = j+k
 
  - Examples of superscalar processors include the Intel Pentium, and the ARM Cortex-A7 and Cortex-A53 cores used in Raspberry Pi 2 and Raspberry Pi 3 respectively
  
  ----
  
  I guess it's better to read the whole blog again as every line is important. 
  Good Luck
