

 - PCI, is a set of comprehensive requirements for enhancing payment account data security. 
 - Applications are POS and related systems, disputes, and Guest identification systems using credit card number as the identifier.

**Requirements**

1. Install and maintain a firewall configuration to protect cardholder data
2. Do not use vendor-supplied defaults for system passwords and other security parameters
Protect Cardholder Data
3. Protect stored cardholder data
4. Encrypt transmission of cardholder data across open, public networks
Maintain a Vulnerability Management Program
5. Use and regularly update anti-virus software or programs
6. Develop and maintain secure systems and applications
Implement Strong Access Control Measures
7. Restrict access to cardholder data by business need-to-know
8. Assign a unique ID to each person with computer access
9. Restrict physical access to cardholder data
Regularly Monitor and Test Networks
10. Track and monitor all access to network resources and cardholder data
11. Regularly test security systems and processes
Maintain an Information Security Policy
12. Maintain a policy that addresses information security for all personnel


The requirements also mandate the protection of Cardholder Name, Service Code, and Expiration Date when stored in conjunction with the Card Number. Specific data security controls are specified in the requirements.

**Assessment**

 A Qualified Security Assessor (QSA) to perform on-site security assessments for verifcation of compliance with PCI DSS. A QSA is a third party data security firm that has been trained and is certified with the PCI Security Standards Council to perform these assessments. Example responsibilities of a QSA include using independent judgment to confirm the standard has been met, providing support and guidance during the compliance process, evaluating compensating controls, producing the final report, etc.
 
 **Penalties for Non-Compliance**
 
 The payment card brands may, at their discretion, fine an acquiring bank $5,000 to $100,000 per month for PCI compliance violations. The banks will typically pass this fine on downstream until it eventually hits the merchant. Furthermore, the bank may terminate their relationship with the merchant or increase transaction fees.
 
 
