### Mobile App Security Testing [Link](https://github.com/OWASP/owasp-mstg/)
 
 - The NDK (or Native Development Kit) is a C/C++ development kit used for developing binary libraries components that can directly access to lower level APIs (such as OpenGL).
 - Dynamic analysis is usually used to check for security mechanisms that provide sufficient protection against the most prevalent types of attack, such as disclosure of data in transit, authentication and authorization issues, and server configuration errors.
 - security testers commonly report vulnerabilities that are exploitable in a web browser but aren't relevant to the mobile app. This false positive occurs because automated tools used to scan the back-end service are based on regular browser-based web applications. Issues such as CSRF (Cross-site Request Forgery) and missing security headers are reported accordingly.
	 - Let's take CSRF as an example. A successful CSRF attack requires the following:
		 - The ability to entice the logged-in user to open a malicious link in the web browser used to access the vulnerable site.
		 - The client (browser) must automatically add the session cookie or other authentication token to the request.
	 - Mobile apps don't fulfill these requirements: even if Webviews and cookie-based session management are used, any malicious link the user clicks opens in the default browser, which has a separate cookie store.
    - Stored Cross-Site Scripting (CSS) can be an issue if the app includes Webviews, and it may even lead to command execution if the app exports JavaScript interfaces. However, reflected cross-site scripting is rarely an issue for the reason mentioned above (even though whether they should exist at all is arguable—escaping output is simply a best practice).

 - There are three general states from which data may be accessible:
 	- At rest - the data is sitting in a file or data store
	- In use - an application has loaded the data into its address space
	- In transit - data has been sent between consuming processes, e.g., during IPC (Inter-Process Communication)

 - 
