[SSL pinning for Android iOS](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O7aTw81R6OI)

 - Pinning doesn't protect you from local attacks.
 - You can pin to:
	 - Full Cert
	 - SPKI - Subject public key information signature
	 - HPKP is vulnerable on first use.
 - Pinning in Android
	 - Use the Network Security Configuration from android N
	 - Before Android Nougat:
		 - Obtain the certificate for desired host
		 - Load the Certificate in a Keystore
		 - initalize the TrustManager that trusts the CA in the keystore.
		 - Validate the chain and do hostname verification.
	 - X509TrustManager 
	 - Use Okhttp3 pinner.
	 - TrustKit for android.
 - Pinning in iOS
	 - Using NSURLConnection
	 - Use Alamofire
	 - Use AFNetworking
	 - TrustKit
 
 - THere are three ways to pin .
	- Public Key Pininig (if your certificate is propely renewed your public key won;t change)
	- Certificate Pining
	- SPKI Pining (Hash ot public key and other metadata is pinned to the application )

[Universal Android SSL Pinning bypass with Frida](https://techblog.mediaservice.net/2017/07/universal-android-ssl-pinning-bypass-with-frida/)

 - we identify the offending method (hint: logcat) we basically hijack it and let it always return true.
 - How it works:
	1.	Load our rogue CAs cert from device
	2.	Create our own KeyStore containing our trusted CAs
	3.	Create a TrustManager that trusts the CAs in our KeyStore
- When the application initializes its SSLContext we hijack the SSLContext.init() method and when it gets called, we swap the 2nd parameter, which is the application TrustManager, with our own TrustManager we previously prepared. (SSLContext.init(KeyManager, TrustManager, SecuRandom)).
- 
