# Introduction
- http://www.tenouk.com/ModuleW.html
- IA-32 : Intel Architecture 32 bit Assembly
- Find the information about CPU?
	- `cat /proc/cpuinfo`
	- `lscpu`
- Search a package name in catalog
	- ex `sudo apt-cache search sshd`
- `ESP EBP ESI EDI` can only be broken into 16-bit lower half unlike EAX etc.
- gdb `display /x $eax`
- find out what instruction `$eip` is  going to execute-
	- `disassemble $eip`
- change to flavour of syntax in gdb
	- `set disassembly-flavour  intel`
- See how the process is laid out in memory
	- `cat /proc/pid/maps`
	- gdb `info proc mappings`
	- `pmap pid`
- Helloworld in assembly.
	- `.text` all code - Procedures
	- `.data` all data which remains same throughout the execution of program.
	- `db` define bytes, use with the label.
	- `_start` defines the entry point of the program
	- On IA32, `0x80` is used to invoke system calls
	- `/usr/include/i386-linux-gnu/asm/unistd_32.h` file has defined all the system calls for IA32.
	- `man 2 write` read about write to a fd
	- Passing arguments by registers
		- EAX - System Call Number
		- EBX - 1 st arg
		- ECX - 2nd arg and so on.
	- `nasm -f elf32 -o HelloWorld.o HelloWorld.asm` - generate 32 bit object file instead of 64 bit.
	- `ld -m elf_i386 -s -o HelloWorld HelloWorld.o` - workaround for kali 64 bit.
	- `echo $?` to get the value of exit
	- `-s` remove it from ld , otherwise it won't load debugging symbols require to work with `gdb`
	- `stepi` is used to step info a function, otherwise it will execute the next function
	- `x/s address` examine the memory for string.
	- `nasm` is a case sensitive assembler. And memory is reference using `[]`
	- 	

	- `$` evaluates to the current line
	- `$` evaluates to the beginning of the current section
	-  To find the entry point using readelf
		- `readelf  -h programname`
	- `info variables` to find all the variable in the program, as disassemble only going to display instructions.
	- `x/xb mem_addr`
	- `x/xb &var_name`
	- 

	



