[NODEGoat](https://github.com/OWASP/NodeGoat)

 - In response: Indication of Node/Express Application
	 - `X-Powered-By: Express`
	 - `connect.sid`
	 - 	It Doesn't supports changing request method, only POST allowed to submit login FORM.
	 - `userName[$gt]=a&password[$gt]=a&_csrf=` not working. - May be because of POST.
 
### Injection

- SSJI
	- `eval()` ,`setTimeOut()`, `setInterval()` , `Function()` this can be used by user to inject malicious user data to ececute code.
	- eval() whitout any input validation is dangarous.
	- Injction to cause DOS payloads:
		- `while(1)`
		- `process.exit()`
		- `process.kill(process.pid)`
	- Simple chack is `1+3` if reflection is 4 then Injection is possible. In case of blinf sleep,ping are useful.
	- Function to access files using injection techniques:
		- View Directory
		- `res.end(require('fs').readdirSync(.).toString)`
		- Change Directory 
		- `res.end(require('fs').readdirSync(..).toString)`
		- View Files
		- `res.end(require('fs').readFileSync(filename))`
	 - An attacker can also execute processes using child_process and fs modules.
	 - Prevention:
		 - Do not use eval to parse JSON input, use JSON.parse() methods to do so.
		 - use `strict mode` at the beginning of the function , I guess it muxh protect the ececution of direct values passed inside it.
		 
- SQL & NoSQL Injection
	- Expressions which gets executed by the DB
	- In NoSQL, indtead of $gt we can also make use of $ne operator.
	- MongoDB JS `$where` expression performs JS expression evaluation on MongoDB server. If user is able to inject in such expressions SSJS happens.
	- Also follow least privilege principle.
 

### Broken Authentication and session management

- Session Management
	- Attack impersonate as other user to gain access to the data that doesn't belongs to him.
	- Session management is a critical piece of application security.
	- It is broader risk, and requires developers take care of protecting :
		- session id 
		- user credential secure storage,
		- session duration,
		- protecting critical session data in transit.

	 - Prevention
		 - Session IDs should not be exposed in the URL
		 - Session IDs should timeout. User sessions or authentication tokens should get properly invalidated during logout.
		 - 	Session IDs should be recreated after successful login.
		 - Passwords, session IDs, and other credentials should not be sent over unencrypted connections



### Security Misconfiguration

 - Don't run node with root privilges.
 - It may seem necessary to run as root user to access privileged ports such as 80. However, this can achieved either by starting server as root and then downgrading the non-privileged user after listening on port 80 is established, or using a separate proxy, or using port mapping.
 - The default HTTP header x-powered-by can reveal implementation details to an attacker.
 
 		 app.disable("x-powered-by"); 



 - The default session cookie name for express sessions can be changed by setting key attribute while creating express session.
 
 	    app.use(express.session({
            secret: config.cookieSecret,
            key: "sessionId",
            cookie: {
                httpOnly: true,
                secure: true
            }
            }));
	
 - The security related HTTP Headers can be added using helmet middleware as below
 
         // Prevent opening page in frame or iframe to protect from clickjacking
        app.disable("x-powered-by");

        // Prevent opening page in frame or iframe to protect from clickjacking
        app.use(helmet.xframe());

        // Prevents browser from caching and storing page
        app.use(helmet.noCache());

        // Allow loading resources only from white-listed domains
        app.use(helmet.csp());

        // Allow communication only on HTTPS
        app.use(helmet.hsts());

        // Forces browser to only use the Content-Type set in the response header instead of sniffing or guessing it
        app.use(nosniff());



