### [Insecure Mass Assignment Prevention - Mongoose & Node.js](https://nvisium.com/blog/2014/01/17/insecure-mass-assignment-prevention/)

 - Mass-Assignment, it is a feature typically found in MVC style frameworks. User parameters and values can be directly translated to database attributes and values. This makes instantiating a new model object less tedious.

 - Request

			POST /api/create_user HTTP/1.1
			Accept: application/json
			Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
			Host: localhost
			Connection: Keep-Alive
			Accept-Encoding: gzip
			Content-Length: 2103

			first_name=Ken&last_name=Johnson&password=lolcats&password_confirmation=lolcats&email=test@test.com

 - Server side handling


 - The following code is used by the application to process the new user's request. The application code takes the body of the POST request req.body and instantiates a new user model object new User() with them. Any parameters submitted by the user are converted into database attributes and values.
	

		var user = new User(req.body);
		user.save();

 -  the entire body of the request is dumped into a new user object and becomes a database document. 

 - What if there is an admin attribute? In the request shown (above), if the user added a parameter 'admin=true' to the body of the POST request.... they would now have administrative rights to the application.

**Fix**

- create an array and only allow the user to submit parameters that match elements in that array. Essentially, create a whitelist. 
	
 - The following code demonstrates this concept in action using the pickmethod provided by the underscore library :

 - Request Handling

		_ = require('underscore');
		var user = new User(_.pick(req.body, User.userCreateSafeFields));

 - Request model
		
		UserSchema.statics = {User.userCreateSafeFields: ['email', 'password', 'password_confirmation', 'first_name', 'last_name']};


