### Book
#### [Securing Node Applications, 1st Edition](https://www.safaribooksonline.com/library/view/securing-node-applications/9781491982426/)

---------------------------------------

**Injection Attacks**

 - *Command Injection*
	 - The child_process core module enables Node developers to invoke underlying OS commands from the application code.
		 - `child_process.exec(command[, options][, callback])`
	 - an attacker can append `;` to break out of the gzip command.
	 - an attacker also can chain multiple commands by using characters such as `;, &, &&, |, ||, $(), <, >, and >>.`
	 - *Prevention*
		 - USE EXECFILE OR SPAWN INSTEAD OF EXEC
			 - When possible, use the child_process module’s execFile or spawn methods instead of exec. Unlike exec, the spawn and execFile method signatures force developers to separate the command and its arguments.
		 - INPUT VALIDATION
			 - USING A WHITELIST APPROACH FOR INPUT VALIDATION
		 	 - USING THE JOI MODULE FOR INPUT VALIDATION
			 - LIMIT USER PRIVILEGES
				 - the Node.js process should not run with root privileges. Instead, run it with a user that has access to only the required resources and no read–write access outside the web application directory.
		 
- *Database Injection*
	 - SQL Injection Attack Mechanics
		 -When malicious data is concatenated to a SQL query, the SQL interpreter fails to distinguish between the intended command and input data, resulting in the execution of the malicious data as SQL commands.
	 	- `admin' -- `
	- *Prevention*
		- USE PARAMETERIZED QUERIES TO BIND ALL USER-SUPPLIED DATA
			- Parameterized queries prevent an attacker from changing the intent of a query, and enable the SQL interpreter to distinguish clearly between code and data. 
		- APPLY INPUT VALIDATIONS BASED ON WHITELIST
		- USE DATABASE ACCOUNTS WITH LEAST PRIVILEGE
			- Consider creating separate users with read-only and read-write access, and choose the user account with the minimum required privileges that meet the requirements.
	- *NoSQL Injection Attack*
		- In MongoDB, the $gt comparison operator selects documents where the value of the field is greater than the specified value. 
		- You can achieve the same results by using another comparison operator, such as $ne, in the input.
		- Another mechanism to manifest NoSQL injection is exploiting the $where operator, which takes a JavaScript function and processes user inputs within the function.
		- The $where operator-based NoSQL injection provides an attacker with the ability to craft malicious inputs using JavaScript language, which offers greater flexibility and options to an attacker when compared to a plain old SQL injection attack, in which strict SQL interpreter rules confine the ways to construct malicious inputs.
	- *Prevention*
		- escape all user-supplied inputs before using it.
		- Avoid using options such as $where with JavaScript functions that directly process user-supplied inputs.
	

---------------------------

**Broken Authentication and Session Management**

 - *Securing the Authentication Mechanism*
	 - impersonate
	 - The typical attack scenarios include exploiting weak account passwords, passwords stolen from database breaches, active session IDs stolen from a victim user’s browser or network communication, or bugs in password management features such as changing or recovering a forgotten password.
	 - Password cracking is equivalent to a burglar picking the lock on the front door of a house to break in.
	 - Ensure that the change password functionality requires the old password.
	 - The bcrypt algorithm is specifically suitable for encrypting user passwords.It incorporates a salt value by default. It is also a deliberately slow algorithm, thus significantly hampering an attacker’s attempt to compute the hashes for a large number of possible passwords. Moreover, it allows you to control the cost of encryption with a configurable work factor, which you can subsequently increase as computational power increases and hardware costs fall in the future.

 - *Securing Session Management*
	 - Because HTTP is a stateless protocol, to remember a user, the server maintains a session identifier (SID) that is passed back and forth between the client and server. This SID is equivalent to a user’s identity for the server; hence, it also is a primary target for attackers who are trying to impersonate other users.
	 - Session Hijacking Attack
		 - In session hijacking, an attacker steals the session cookie from an active user session and uses it to re-create the session without needing to enter the user ID or password.
		 - An attacker can steal the session cookie using techniques such as utilizing a network sniffer, which is a piece of malicious script injected by using a cross-site scripting (XSS) attack or malware installed on a victim’s computer.
		 - Protecting Against Session Hijacking
			 - NEVER INCLUDE THE SID IN A URL PARAMETER
			 - SET HTTPONLY AND SECURE FLAGS ON COOKIE OPTIONS
				 - The httpOnly flag ensures that the cookie is not accessible to JavaScript code running on the browser, foiling the attempts to steal it by using XSS attack. 
				 - The secure flag ensures that the cookie is transmitted only on a secure HTTPS connection, thus eliminating network sniffing and man-in-the-middle attacks.
			 - SET THE SESSION TIMEOUT PERIOD
				 - It is important to limit the lifetime of an active session on the server by using either expires or maxAge cookie options.
				 - Depending on the type of session store used, the default value for session timeout varies. For example, by default, it is one day for connect-redis–based RedisStore, and 14 days for connect-mongo–based MongoStore. Set session timeout to the minimum possible value depending on the context of the application, using maxAge cookie options to set the inactive session timeout.
			 - DESTROY SESSION ON LOGOUT
			 - you should make the logout button plainly visible and easily accessible from all pages that need authentication. Upon logout, destroy active session data by using the destroy method on session; for example, req.session.destroy(). Additionally, invalidate SSO tokens if they are in use.

 - *Session Fixation*
	  - To carry out a session fixation attack, typically an attacker performs these steps:
		  - Obtains a legitimate SID from the server by making an HTTP request; for example, by opening a login page.
		  - Sets the cookie with SID in the victim user’s browser and induces the victim user to use it to authenticate on the target application.
		  - Hijacks the user-validated session with the knowledge of the SID used.
	  - Protecting Against Session Fixation Attack
		  - The key to prevent a session fixation attack is to simply regenerate the SID each time a user authenticates. 


------------------------

**Cross-Site Scripting**

 - The key mechanism behind XSS attack is content injection, wherein an attacker inserts malicious JavaScript content on a web page. 
	 - Reflected XSS is typically a one-to-one attack because an attacker needs to send the malicious link to each user; hence, it affects only those users that click it. So, it has relatively less chances of success as compared to the stored XSS attack
	 - stored XSS is a one-to-many attack with a greater possibility to cause damage.
	 - *Prevention*
	 	- ADD A CONTENT-SECURITY-POLICY HEADER
	 	- ENCODE UNTRUSTED DATA - output encoding must be applied as per the context
 	- Polyglot JPEGs -  It contains JS code in the header and can be executed by including the image in the script tag.
		ex : `<script charset="ISO-8859-1" src="/uploads/xss.jpg"></script>`
		- If you allow users to upload images on the same domain as your app, and the CSP default-srcpolicy is set to self, an attacker can bypass this CSP protection and execute malicious code. An attacker can do so by uploading a polyglot JPEG containing the code and injecting a script tag on the page that points to the uploaded image.
		- To protect against it, if you allow image uploads on your site, place uploaded images on a separate domain and ensure that this domain is not whitelisted for script execution as part of the CSP policy. Also, sanitize the uploaded images by removing JPEG header comments.
			- 	http://blog.portswigger.net/2016/12/bypassing-csp-using-polyglot-jpegs.html
 
 -----------------
 
**Insecure Direct Object References**
 - The insecure direct object references vulnerability allows an attacker to steal other users’ data of a specific type.
 - As the name indicates, it is caused when a direct reference (such as a database ID or a filename) to a restricted object is exposed to users as part of the URL parameter. In addition, the application fails to verify whether the user is authorized to access the requested object for which the reference is present in the request URL.
 - *Preventing Insecure Direct Object References*
	 - Avoid Exposing Direct Object References
		 - Instead of requiring the references in the URL, use the information already present in the user’s session on the server to locate the resources to serve.
	 - Use an Indirect Reference Map
		 - If it is not possible to avoid exposing the references to objects in the URL, as explained earlier, the indirect reference map technique is helpful. The idea behind it is to substitute the sensitive direct internal reference in URL parameters or form fields with a random value that is difficult to predict (such as a GUID) or specific only to the logged-in user (such as sequential values per user or session).
	 - Check User Access at the Data-Object Level
 
-------------------
 
**Directory Traversal**
	- The directory traversal is a special case of the insecure direct object references vulnerability.
	- an attacker manipulates the path exposed in a URL to access directories and files outside of the web root folder and possibly compromise the entire web server.
- **Protecting Against Directory Traversal**
	- At the system-configuration level, configure the root directory and access control list to confine the application user’s access and restrict access to files and directories outside of the web root.
	- In the application code, validate user inputs for presence of path traversal and corresponding encoded characters.
 
 ------------------------
 
**Security Misconfiguration**
	 - Security misconfiguration risk encompasses a broad category of configuration issues originated at any level of an application stack, including OS, network, application server, database, framework, or the application code itself.
	 - Headers Exposing info.
		 - `x-powered-by`
		 - `server`
		 - No `HTTPonly` flag, or `csp`
		 - No `HSTS`
	 - Weak TLS connection
	 - Application is  running as root
	 - *Prevention*
		 - Apply the Principle of Least Privileges
			 - Start the server as root and then downgrade to an ordinary user using process.setuid() after the connection to port 80 is established.
			 - Use a separate proxy server such Nginx or Apache that listens on the desired privileged port, such as 80, and then redirect requests to a Node server running on a nonprivileged port.
			 	- Use separate server not service
		 	 - Set up iptables to bind to the desired port (80 or 443) and forward requests to the application running on any nonprivileged port such as 3000. Note that such a forwarding rule is not persistent, so you might need to set it in the system startup script to apply it each time the server starts.
	 	 - 	Disable Any Development-Specific Features and Default Users
	 	 - Protect Cookies by Using the httpOnly and Secure Flags
 
-------------------------- 
 
**Sensitive Data Exposure**
- Attacks
	- BROWSER AUTOCOMPLETE FEATURE
		- DISABLE AUTOCOMPLETE ON SENSITIVE FORM FIELDS
		- `autocomplete="off"`
	- BROWSER CACHING MECHANISM
		- set the Cache-Control response header to no-store
		- Another most-preferred option to prevent caching is to communicate via an HTTPS connection. On a secure SSL/TLS network, browsers assume that all traffic is sensitive; hence, when a user closes the browser, any content cached in memory is cleaned automatically. In this case, to enforce static public resources to cache for a long term, set the Cache-Control response header to public.
	 - Another commonly used option to establish secure HTTPS connection with clients is to use web servers such as NGINX or Apache as a reverse proxy in front of the Node.js application server. This option is often preferred for performance reasons. In this case, the secure SSL/TLS connection from the client terminates at the reverse proxy server. The Node.js server sends and receives content in unencrypted format to and from the reverse proxy server.
 
 - Secure - Establishing HTTPS connection 
	 - Obtain certificates from a reliable certificate authority (CA). As an example, Let’s Encrypt is a free, automated, and open CA that is run for the public’s benefit.
	 - Use strong certificate signature algorithms such as SHA2 instead of the weak but still commonly used SHA1 hashing function.
	 - Use 2,048-bit RSA or 256-bit Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA) private keys for all your servers. Keys of this strength should stay secure for a considerable amount of time.
	 - Password-protect the private keys and restrict their access to the smallest possible group of employees.
	 - Renew certificates every year, always with new private keys.
	 - Of the five protocols in the SSL/TLS family—SSL v2, SSL v3, TLS v1.0, TLS v1.1, and TLS v1.2—use TLS v1.2. It’s superior and offers important features that are unavailable in earlier protocol versions.
	 - Transmit all page content via SSL/TLS, including static resources such as JavaScript files, images, and CSS files. An attacker can piggyback on even a single unprotected resource and hijack the entire user session.
	 - Set the secure flag on all cookies.
	 - Finally, the most important safety feature with respect to TLS configuration issues is to set the HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS) response header. Its benefit is if a site is first accessed via HTTPS and the response contains the HSTS header, the browser ensures to continue using HTTPS connections for all subsequent requests to the site, automatically converting any HTTP requests to HTTPS.
 
 - ENCRYPT SENSITIVE DATA
	 - You should encrypt passwords, Social Security numbers, and credit card numbers so that they are not directly usable to an attacker.
	 - The data, such as user passwords, is only used for comparison with user-supplied values. It is never needed to present back to the user in a clear-text format. Consequently, a one-way hashing function such as `bcrypt` is often suitable for such data.
	 -  The `bcrypt` incorporates a salt, making it difficult to crack by using dictionary attacks.
 
 - SECURE ENCRYPTION KEYS
	 - Hardware security modules (HSMs)
	 - Hosting encryption and key management tool - Vault
		 - A benefit of such a tool is that developers do not need to deal with encryption keys or writing code to encrypt/decrypt data. Instead, they just call the Vault API to encrypt/decrypt data as needed. Thus, the responsibility of encryption is on Vault and the security team managing it.

----------------------------

 **Missing Function-Level Access Control**
 
 - The missing function-level access control vulnerability refers to the flaws in the authorization logic. By exploiting it, an attacker, who could be an existing user of the application, is able to escalate privileges and access restricted functionalities. 
	 
	














		
