### [Cryptocurrency - Gynvael Live](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uumGV383_qQ)

- What is Bitcoin?
    - It's a protocol
    - Implementation of Blockchain
    - Denomination of Currency
 
- Smallest denomination is satoshi
- It is stored as 8 bit integer.
- There are only 21 million Bitcoin, and it is hardcoded, require hard fork if we want to change the limit.
- Network validates transactions
- What is mining?
    - There is a hard problem that lot of actors compete to solve it.
    - Blocks are immutable and exponentially it becomes hard and hard to change.
    - Every block has hash of previous block
    - Proof of work, proof of paper : Ethereum
    - To mine it we have to brute force the hash.      
        
[Example](https://anders.com/blockchain/block.html)

 - Blockchain says a block has to have leading zeros in the hash, the it will be called a valid block.
 - The number of leading zero is called the difficulty.
 - More power you put in mining, more leading zeros hash you will get.
 - Hash of all zero are called Genesis.
 - Distributed Blockchain has all the hashes of mined blocks.
 - To find current difficuly in Bitcoin - [satoshi.info](satoshi.info)
 - After hard fork ethereum is not longer proof of work blockchain. [Diff B/W Bitcoin & Ethereum]
     - It means mining is not done by doing complex calculations.
     - It has become proof of state, means hold coins generate new coins.
     - Main characteristics of Ethereum is it allows creation of smart contracts.
     - Code is Law.
     - Revert of Fraudulent Transactions is possible i Ether.
 - What is bitcoin transaction fees.
     - We can voluntarily put a fee in transaction so it became more likely to be embed in a block by the miner. 
     - When we broadcast a transaction, tx is validated and put in mempool.
     - Due to limited size of block, the input has to be bigger than output and the difference goes to the miners.
     
     
 - What is bitcoin wallet
      - It has your private key
 - Monaro is a cryptocurrency which makes impossible to find input/output relation. It means who paid who? No Answer, Unlike bitcoin, the network is called crypto-net.
 
 - Blockchain.info entropy story is quite fun, they use random.org to get seed if urandom, securerandom is not present. the site uses http, later they change it to https with 30 redirect, but this redirect is not handled properly, so the seed became the 1 byte of 301 response.
 - Countries where Electricity is subsidized has more likely to have miners as it is cheap to put mine farm and make profit.
 - There will be not state where last bitcoin is mined, it can approach zero.., it will happen in 2051.
 - BLoackchain is a kind of DB that doesn't scale well.
 - It is temper proof.
 - Mempool is syncronized using bitcoin B2B protocol.
