### https://leanpub.com/gocrypto/read
- cryptography aims to solve: confidentiality, integrity, and authenticity.
	- Confidentiality is the requirement that only the intended party can read a given message
	- integrity is the requirement that a message’s contents cannot be tampered with
	- authenticity is the requirement that the provenance (or origin) of a message can be trusted.
- A message authentication code (or MAC) is a piece of data that provides authenticity and integrity. A MAC algorithm is used both to generate and validate this code.
 - A hash or digest algorithm transforms some arbitrary message into a fixed-size output, also called a digest or hash.
 - Cryptography should be used to solve specific problems, such as
	 - Eavesdropping - Confidentiality
	 - Spoofing - Authenticity
	 - Tampering - Integrity
 - `/dev/urandom` is ideal
 - `crypto/rand.Reader` in the Go standard library uses this on Unix systems.
 - Authentication that relies on time-based one-time passwords also require an accurate clock.
 - Symmetric cryptography is the simplest form of cryptography: all parties share the same key. It also tends to be the fastest type of cryptography. 
 -  Key distribution with symmetric cryptography is more difficult than with asymmetric cryptography as the transmission of sensitive key material requires a secure channel.
 -  `IND-CCA` The attacker submits ciphertexts of its own choosing that the server decrypts. After some observations, the attacker submits two challenge ciphertexts and the server picks one at random to decrypt and send back to the attacker. The attacker should not be able to distinguish which ciphertext the plaintext corresponds to. This attack is often seen in symmetric security as a padding oracle attack, in which the encryption scheme used does not include a message authentication code (such as AES-CBC without an HMAC), and can allow the attacker to recover the key used for encryption. 
 - Appending an HMAC or using an authenticated mode (like GCM) requires that the attacker prove they have the key used to authenticate the message. Rejecting a message that fails the MAC reduces the possibility of an invalid message. It also means that an attacker that is just sending invalid data has their message dropped before even wasting processor time on decryption.
 - Always use either an authenticated mode (like GCM), or encrypt-then-MAC.
 - stream ciphers, where messages lengths do not need to be a multiple of the block size.
 - In CBC mode, each block of ciphertext is XOR’d with the previous block. 
 - Always encrypt-then-MAC. Don’t ever just encrypt.
 
 
